---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: "2011- 2013 :\_Initiated 5 TEDx-conferences"
datePublished: '2016-03-13T12:45:43.920Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-13T12:45:24.968Z'
title: Significant Contributions
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-13-46b3445a-e434-4246-a948-8f8fcd8e506c.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 46b3445a-e434-4246-a948-8f8fcd8e506c/index.html
_type: Article

---
**2011- 2013 : ****Initiated 5 TEDx-conferences**

Each 1000 seats.**TEDxMaastricht**ever was held in 2011 : 1000 people in Audience, 20.000 by Livestreams.**TEDxMaastricht April 2nd 2012**, was the second edition again in Maastricht.**April 8th 2013**the third edition was held in our University's hometown Nijmegen, "Accelerating fromage 0 to 110" . The Radboud University'**TEDxRadboudU May 23rd**was on REgaining trust.   
His was the second Dutchmen with a TED talk featured on the famous TED.com platform.

**2012 -- present  ****Linkedin Influencer. ****Named one of the initial 150 world thought leaders**: Invited to blog on LinkedIn Today homepages as part of the initial 150 global influencers program. With [600.000+ followers ][0]as of January 2016

****2014 ****: ****Dutch National TV future-affairs program Backlight (Tegenlicht) ****VPRO Aired a (Tegenlicht) [documentary][1] on his vision and approach to change healthcare into a more participatory environment in the REshape Innovation Center at Radboud University Medical Center Nijmegen. 

**2015 ****: ****Awarded with the Radboud Medal 2015 **Once a year the prestigious Radboud Medal is being awarded as the highest honor of Radboudumc to someone who has had an extraordinary impact in the enrollment of the strategy of Radboud University Medical Center in the fields of academic medicine and healthcare.

**2015 ****: ****Awarded with the TIM 2015 as most inspirational leader in IT **« Lucien Engelen, dares to put the patient fully central place within the care process, actually as partners in their own care. Within the Nijmegen hospital leadership he exemplifies the so-called REshape-way, that combines both people and ideas and uses technologies to glue those together. Although he works with a small core team, his organically way of organizing and disruption of existing processes is energizing.He is an inspiration for all : stakeholders: patients and their families, doctors, nurses, students and policymakers. "It's not about me, nor my team. Together, there are thousands of us", said Engelen ".A striking initiative is their ecosystem Hereismydata. Together with Philips and with the help of cloud software provider Salesforce they developed a combination of a personal health record, an online community, as well as connectivity platform for medical equipment, wearables and apps, together with patients and their social circle. A great example of stimulating an 'patient engagement in the care process. Lucien Engelen doesn't innovate to make money; the innovative spirit to improve the health of many prevails. It is also a bold statement: a hospital patient that actually dares to approach the patient as a partner.»

**2015****: Awarded with ****the Prof. Dr. Michael-van Vloten Medal May 2015 for the Michaël Lecture. **Since 1990 the Michael van Vloten Foundation in close collaboration with the Dutch Surgical Society from time to time sets stage for the "Dr. Michael Lecture". For this the foundation awards a prestigious foreign surgeon with the "Dr Michael Medal" and invites him or her cordially to the Netherlands to give a plenary lecture during the annual Dutch Surgical Congress.

**Honored to give the first ever Prof. Dr. Frans Nijhuis lecture October 2015\. **Invited by the LOCUS network to address members on behalf of the work the late Frans Nijhuis did on the aspect of inclusive employability. Based on the shift happening in healthcare, he pointed out the opportunities from hospital to home, into to similar processes from home to work for inclusive employability.

**2016  Organizer of conference OurFutureHealth May 26th. **During 'OurFutureHealth' we will host a great array of speakers including patients, doctors & nurses, researchers, technologists and musicians. Already confirmed are experts in their field like Dutch Minister of Health Edith Schippers, Frans van Houten CEO Royal Philips, Peter Hinssen (writer The new normal), Daniel Kraft (Singularity University), Jos de Blok (Buurtzorg), Oscar Kneppkens (Rockstart) and the and both the chairs of our Patients Advisory Council Jopie Verhoeven and Eva Eikhorst. )Invited by the LOCUS network to address members on behalf of the work the late Frans Nijhuis did on the aspect of inclusive employability. Based on the shift happening in healthcare, he pointed out the opportunities from hospital to home, into to similar processes from home to work for inclusive employability.

Hosting simultaneously a National track as well as a Global track (touching base in 20-30 cities via the internet) it is a Worlds first conference like this. The theme of the conference will be : how to create sustainable health(care) with \#patientsincluded innovation and the help of startups. www.ourfuturehealth.org 

[0]: https://www.linkedin.com/today/author/0_7Na1_aHQ5ON8mRSR-druTv_mElQn14zofvw4oqL6HAf?trk=pulse-cat-inf-card-tl-0
[1]: https://vimeo.com/radboudumc/backlight